Upgrade process from 4.0.x to 7.0.x (#863)
opencloud-eu/docs: docs/admin/maintenance/upgrade/upgrade-7.0.x.md

Reviewer: should line 152 to 159 not be in the bash part?

Reviewer: cd /etc/opencloud need to be in the next line

Reviewer: note, that id and secret changes

Reviewer: does the opencloud now work? I think exit the container and start the container again

---
sidebar_position: 4
id: upgrade-7.0.x
title: Upgrade 7.0.x
description: Upgrading to 7.0.x
draft: false
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'

# Upgrading to OpenCloud 7.0.x

This guide explains how to upgrade an existing OpenCloud deployment to the 7.0.x release.

> It includes all required migration steps, configuration changes, and search index updates introduced in this release.

Reviewer 2: search index updates for opensearch engine

that should only related people who use opensearch

The upgrade applies to deployments using:

- Docker Compose
- Docker Named Volumes
- Bind Mounts

Following this guide ensures a safe migration to OpenCloud 7.0.x.

## Before starting the upgrade

> - Ensure you have OpenCloud 4.0.7 installed

Reviewer: Thats for stable release. How can we cover the rolling releases? 

"For the stable version, ensure you have OpenCloud 4.0.7 installed." ?

> - Create a complete backup of your configuration and data.

Reviewer: link to the backup docs

---
sidebar_position: 4
id: upgrade-7.0.x
title: Upgrade 7.0.x
description: Upgrading to 7.0.x
draft: false
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs'
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem'

# Upgrading to OpenCloud 7.0.x

This guide explains how to upgrade an existing OpenCloud deployment to the 7.0.x release.
It includes all required migration steps, configuration changes, and search index updates introduced in this release.

The upgrade applies to deployments using:

- Docker Compose
- Docker Named Volumes
- Bind Mounts

:::note

> The migration search index updates is related ONLY people who uses opensearch

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The migration search index updates are only relevant for instances that use opensearch
```

:::

Following this guide ensures a safe migration to OpenCloud 7.0.x.

## Before starting the upgrade

> - Ensure you have OpenCloud 6.x for rolling or 4.x for stable installed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Ensure you have OpenCloud 6.x (rolling) or 4.x (stable) installed.
```

  service_account:
  service_account_id: 05bca760-ff47-44e3-9532-de8568e097bc
  service_account_secret: NavT+c9okb.AD+170x3..!W78EVXJtSM
    storage_users:
      events:
       tls_insecure: false

  diff written to /etc/opencloud/opencloud.config.patch
  ```

- A patch file will automatically be created:

```bash
/etc/opencloud/opencloud.config.patch
```

- Apply the Configuration Patch
  - Go to the configuration directory:

  ```bash
  cd /etc/opencloud
  ```

  - Verify the generated files:

  Example:

  ```bash
  ls
  banned-password-list.txt
  csp.yaml
  opencloud.config.patch
  opencloud.yaml
  opencloud.yaml.2026-05-19-15-45-44.backup
  ```

- Testing the patch:
  - Run the following command:

  ```bash
  patch --dry-run opencloud.yaml < opencloud.config.patch
  ```

  - Expecting output:

  ```bash
  checking file opencloud.yaml
  ```

- Apply the patch:
  - Run the following command:

  ```bash
  patch opencloud.yaml < opencloud.config.patch
  ```

  - Expected output:

  ```bash
  patching file opencloud.yaml
  ```

- The following configuration entries must exist in opencloud.yaml

```bash
service_account:
service_account_id: 62b789c9-0dd0-4647-afd3-d6969eab03b8

> service_account_secret: wAiwglE93^S-y3hm0bo5FS9sFj^rzQ&i

Reviewer 3: missing whitespaces, wrong languge for markdown code-snipped, i would also suggest to use placeholders instead of examples, this is confusing and might cause security issues if admins just copy and paste without proper reading this doc!

```suggestion
```yaml 
service_account:
  service_account_id: 62b789c9-0dd0-4647-afd3-d6969eab03b8
  service_account_secret: wAiwglE93^S-y3hm0bo5FS9sFj^rzQ&i
```

```yaml
service_account:

>   service_account_id: example_id

Reviewer 3: not sure if we should call it `example_uuid` most of the id examples we use in other places are uuids

>   service_account_secret: example_secret

Reviewer 3: do we have best practices for secrets? if so a link here might be helpful.

:::

> 

Reviewer 3: see comment above

> - Go out of the container

Reviewer 3: `exit the container`

```bash
exit
```

- Start OpenCloud container

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

> 

Reviewer: The OpenSearch Part is missing now.

  opencloud.yaml
  opencloud.yaml.2026-05-19-15-45-44.backup
  ```

- Apply the patch:

```bash
patch < opencloud.config.patch
```

- Expected output:

```bash
patching file opencloud.yaml
Required Configuration Changes
```

## The following configuration entries must exist in opencloud.yaml

```bash
service_account:
service_account_id: 62b789c9-0dd0-4647-afd3-d6969eab03b8
service_account_secret: wAiwglE93^S-y3hm0bo5FS9sFj^rzQ&i
```

## Verify that these values were added successfully after applying the patch

- Start OpenCloud 7.0.x

```bash
docker run \
    --name opencloud \
    --rm \
    -d \
    -p 9200:9200 \
    -v $HOME/opencloud/opencloud-config:/etc/opencloud \
    -v $HOME/opencloud/opencloud-data:/var/lib/opencloud \
    -e OC_INSECURE=true \
    -e PROXY_HTTP_ADDR=0.0.0.0:9200 \
    -e OC_URL=https://localhost:9200 \
    opencloudeu/opencloud:7.0.x
Docker Compose
```

# If you previously used the project name opencloud_full, continue using the same project name to preserve

```bash
Docker networks
Existing volumes
Service compatibility
Option 1 — Temporary
docker compose -p opencloud_full up -d
Option 2 — Permanent
```

- Add to .env:

```bash

> COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME=opencloud_full

Reviewer 2: I think we can remove this. It was relevant when updating to version 4.0.0.

```

## The following configuration entries must exist in opencloud.yaml

```bash
service_account:
service_account_id: 62b789c9-0dd0-4647-afd3-d6969eab03b8
service_account_secret: wAiwglE93^S-y3hm0bo5FS9sFj^rzQ&i
```

## Verify that these values were added successfully after applying the patch

- Start OpenCloud 7.0.x

```bash
docker run \
    --name opencloud \
    --rm \
    -d \
    -p 9200:9200 \
    -v $HOME/opencloud/opencloud-config:/etc/opencloud \
    -v $HOME/opencloud/opencloud-data:/var/lib/opencloud \
    -e OC_INSECURE=true \
    -e PROXY_HTTP_ADDR=0.0.0.0:9200 \
    -e OC_URL=https://localhost:9200 \
    opencloudeu/opencloud:7.0.x
Docker Compose
```

# If you previously used the project name opencloud_full, continue using the same project name to preserve

```bash
Docker networks
Existing volumes
Service compatibility
Option 1 — Temporary
docker compose -p opencloud_full up -d
Option 2 — Permanent
```

- Add to .env:

```bash
COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME=opencloud_full
```

- Then start normally:

```bash
docker compose up -d
Verify the Migration
```

- After startup, monitor the logs:

```bash
docker logs -f opencloud
```

or:

```bash
docker compose logs -f
```

> ## Watch for migration messages and ensure no errors occur

Reviewer 4: I guess we should at least mention here, where to look for those migration messages.

The description in https://github.com/opencloud-eu/opencloud/pull/2760#issue-4437949556 has some details about that. You might want to include those here.

If you have questions, I can assist you with that.

  - Essential Checks
  - User Accounts — Verify all users can log in
  - Shared Folders — Confirm shares remain functional
  - Public Links — Test public links
  - Search — Verify search works correctly after reindexing
  - Project Spaces — Check members and permissions
  - Service Health — Review logs for warnings or errors
  - Troubleshooting

- If issues occur during or after the upgrade:
  - Review container logs
  - Verify opencloud.yaml
  - Re-run the configuration diff if necessary
  - Restore from backup if required
  - Consult the troubleshooting documentation
  - Open an issue on GitHub if needed

- Useful resources:
  - OpenCloud Troubleshooting Guide
  - OpenCloud GitHub Issues

## Updating Web Extensions for OpenCloud 7.0.x

OpenCloud 7.0.x introduces breaking changes in the web client architecture.
Because of these changes, older web extension versions are no longer compatible and must be updated.

:::
Important: Existing web extensions from older OpenCloud releases will not work with 7.0.x.
All installed extensions must be upgraded to the latest compatible version.
:::

- New extension versions are available in the App Store inside the OpenCloud UI

>   or on [GitHub](https://github.com/opencloud-eu/web-extensions/releases?utm_source=chatgpt.com)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  or on [GitHub](https://github.com/opencloud-eu/web-extensions/releases)
```

- Update via OpenCloud App Store
  - Sign in as an administrator.
  - Open: Settings → Apps
  - Check all installed extensions.

>   - Update or reinstall each extension to the latest version.

Reviewer 5: There is no way to check the installed apps and update or install them via the app store. It just provides the same downloads as the GitHub releases page. Apps then need to be installed the same way as described below under "Manual update".

- After updating, reload the browser and verify that the extensions work correctly.

- Manual Update

>   - Download the newest extension release from: [GitHub](https://github.com/opencloud-eu/web-extensions/releases?utm_source=chatgpt.com)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  - Download the newest extension release from: [GitHub](https://github.com/opencloud-eu/web-extensions/releases)
```

- Upload the Extension
  - Example using scp:

  ```bash
  scp extension-name.zip root@your-server:/opt/opencloud/extensions/
  ```

- Install the Extension

- Connect to the server:

  ```bash
  ssh root@your-server
  ```

- Go to the extensions directory:

  ```bash
  cd /opt/opencloud/extensions

>   ```

Reviewer 5: I'm not aware of that directory, is it really a thing? Maybe we should shorten this whole paragraph about how to install/update apps and just link to the docs explaining this: https://docs.opencloud.eu/docs/admin/configuration/web-applications#installing-a-web-application?

docker cp opencloud_full-opencloud-1:/etc/opencloud ~/opencloud-backups/config-backup
```

- Pull the latest OpenCloud Compose

If you are using Docker Compose with the `opencloud-compose` repository, update your local checkout before pulling the new container image:

```bash
cd /opencloud-compose
git pull
```

Skip this step if you run OpenCloud with plain Docker (`docker run`).

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

- Stop OpenCloud

First, gracefully stop your currently running OpenCloud instance:

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="docker" label="docker">

```bash
docker stop opencloud
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="docker compose" label="docker compose">

```bash
docker compose stop
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

> 

Reviewer: docker pull is missing
